and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show i'm your host sam
dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't yet
check out our weekly email where we
share actual marketing tips
useful podcasts free guides bonus
resources and much much more to start
your week off with the bang each and
every monday you can sign up over at
business growth dot email and with that
said my guest today is james berkley
james is the chief evangelist and master
of ceremonies he's a returning guest and
he works over at jb sales james welcome
back man how you doing yeah dude every
you like such a good intro i feel like
there needs to be like applause after
you say the person's name come on man
i'm just just trying to make it as good
as yours on the on the jb podcast
yeah we have a lot of fun on that
podcast we average about 4 000 downloads
a week these days
sweet make it happen mondays
happen
indeed so we're gonna be talking all
about why top performers are building
their personal brands for now for 2022
and beyond
so let's let's jump right in let's not
mess about what is the importance now
james of um why is it so key why does so
many people ramble on about building a
personal brand how is it going to help
us
right now and beyond
there's a so there's a huge factor here
that wasn't such a factor just a few
years ago and i hate to bring up the
pandemic but
two years ago when the pandemic hit
we saw the fallout from the folks that
just kind of came in and went through
the motions they never had any type of
like digital footprint that they were
leaving behind um there was not a lot of
extra extracurricular things that would
build their brand and earn them more
credibility with their prospects and
typically these folks struggled to hit
numbers more often than folks that had
strong digital presences and great
content that they shared out original
ideas personal brands that stood out
and when that happened we saw that 10
percent that bottom 10
basically get forced out
but then something else happened the way
that buyers
decided who they were going to give time
to changed
and there's this step that got inserted
into the buying process which is who is
this person and should i be doing
business with them in the first place
and this is where that personal brand
became highly valuable because the
number one thing that sales people
started to struggle with was credibility
who's credible enough to get my buyers
time became the massive question on
everybody's mind that no one was talking
about
and
once that 67
of people raised their hand and said yes
i go and i look at people on linkedin i
look at people on facebook and twitter
before i decide whether or not to give
them my time suddenly everybody got
interested in how can i build a personal
brand that earns me more credibility the
number one thing sales people struggle
with to earn from their prospects cold
is credibility and a personal brand is
the avenue to earning that and getting a
conversation with somebody you could
potentially sell to
yeah i like it and just like you say no
one's going to buy from you unless they
trust
that you're going to do a great job for
them yeah well think about it like this
if you're a buyer and you take that step
67 of them agree that they take that
step
and they look at somebody and what they
see is
sort of no activity not a lot of
articles no posts at all they only post
their company stuff sometimes what you
just became in the mind of that
potential buyer is a sleazy salesperson
that just wants my money they don't
really care about what they're doing
they don't put a lot of effort behind it
this may not be true you could be wildly
passionate about it and not have a
personal brand there are people out
there that are incredibly successful
that don't own social media profiles
they never log into them there are
people that do this but when you're
selling
and someone looks at you and that's what
they see
you have a harder time earning that time
with them that you need to be able to
build rapport start a conversation find
the value proposition opportunity and
insert it into the conversation
organically providing value for that
customer they'll never give you the time
to go through that process if what they
see is nil
yeah yeah yes i guess you could always
compare it to getting someone's cv and
it's almost like seeing a blank page
yeah yes i don't know i you know i don't
think cvs are as important as they used
to be to be honest i think if somebody's
requesting a cv many people in the
modern working environment would have to
go go to google and go what is a cv
it's almost it's almost got to that
stage hasn't it now
to break things down to basics james
what would you say is a
summary of a personal brand and i know
everyone that's been on the show and
talked about this has a slightly
different view but i'm keen to know what
you think yeah so i define it quite
simply it's not complicated and this is
how i define a personal brand it is a
digital representation of your
professional self
simple easy that doesn't mean you only
post professional content it doesn't
mean you can't talk about things that
are outside what you sell
but your personal brand is that digital
image of who you are and what you care
about and your passion for life your
product your customers your service the
things that you care about uh hobbies
that you might be into macros that other
people might be into that draw them
towards you if you're not representing
these things with your strong personal
brand
then people don't know why they should
connect to you people don't have
anything that draws them in your
direction i always say that salespeople
essentially talk to two kinds of people
people that like their personalities and
gravitate towards them and people that
are repelled by their personalities your
personal brand is like a magnet i can't
i want to say with seth godin i could be
wrong somebody said your personal brand
is like a magnet it has two poles
and on one pole it pulls people that
like it in your direction man how
valuable is that for a salesperson right
and on the other pole it repels people
away
and that's okay
you can't sell to them anyway
it doesn't mean that you can't be
friends it doesn't mean you hate that
person that's repelled by your personal
brand what it does mean is that they're
not a prospect for you
the people that are attracted to your
personal brand often become prospects
for you naturally organically and guess
what you don't have to chase it as hard
yeah yeah yeah
that's a nice little summary i've never
really thought of it as a magnet
um
but yeah and and the ultimate thing like
you said there is you want to attract
the right kind of prospects
and
i don't think there's anything wrong
with what you said they're repelling
repaying poor kind of prospects because
ultimately you as a sales rep as a
business owner whatever standpoint
you're at you don't want to attract
anyone and everyone because not
everyone's qualified to do business with
you and vice versa it might be that they
can't afford your stuff they're not an
ideal client they don't need your help
they're not interested in your help
whatever it may be
i mean there's a thousand reasons why
but i'll go i'll go spiritual on you
here for just a minute go for it
i believe
that
we've all met people that we naturally
think to ourselves i really like that
person and we don't know why there's
just something about them it just rubs
us the right way we feel connected to
them we feel related we feel like we
relate to them like they just we just
like those types of people and then
there are other people where we meet
them for the first time and we're like
oh
if i ever see that prick again it's
going to be way too soon right
my belief is that the reason we get
these feelings with strangers is that in
a past life we may have had a great
relationship with this other person this
other soul
and on the other side of the fence in a
past life this person may have wronged
me
and when you get that feeling with
strangers i believe that's what's
happening it's our past lives coming
back at us and saying hey that that one
is not for you remember that time
there's an interesting way to look at it
it is strange though when you're
flicking through linkedin or whatever
social channel channel is and you've
seen so many posts on a daily basis from
this this one person
and they talk about something in that
they an expert in so consistently you
almost feel like you know them so you
almost feel like oh yeah i'm looking
through the feed again in the morning
perhaps having a drink of coffee
whatever you're having and yeah you're
like it's almost like a nurse person
because i see them so much yep that's
right and the consistency is something
that people start to gravitate towards
too i've called a lot of i'm a cold
caller i default to the phone if i have
a phone number for you chances are good
i've dialed it in the past and found out
it was a bad number or found out it was
the right number but you just ignored me
i'm fine right i'm a cold caller i like
cold calling i'll talk to strangers
if you cold call somebody and they also
follow you
even people that i didn't know followed
me have picked up they've been like oh
[__] james buckley is calling me
they get really excited
say what sales you know like that's my
brand they yell it out at me
when you've done that when you've
accomplished that
you're you're on that path to becoming
that brand that's well known that's
recognizable that people trust
anybody that comes forward without any
type of research or development or past
history of success saying i'm coming in
to compete with nike every nike millions
of nike fans out there are like i don't
even know you dude like
i'm never switching like that's my brand
a recognizable brand draws people in
your direction but it also puts what
you're thinking and puts your thoughts
out there for other people to share for
other people to support you and that
growth is both personal and professional
and we cannot grow professionally until
we're willing to grow personally
would you say it's almost an unfair
advantage so i just wanna before we talk
go get actionable and share some tips
and strategies i think that the people
that haven't taken the time and haven't
put a lot of care into their personal
brand would label it as an unfair
advantage but i think the people that
have a personal brand and use it to
leverage and gain the advantage would
say no it's just more strategic they
just know me more
yeah
reason i'm doing this is i want to
basically show anyone that's tuning in
that's perhaps heard of personal brand
and probably thinks that this is load of
nonsense or driver just hit the phones
leverage my existing network go to
networking events perhaps spend money on
paid ads perhaps to other marketing
mythologies or they think there's better
ways to spend their time
i really want to just say look this is
this is what you can gain from being a
person from starting your own personal
brand rather i.e you can build trust you
can connect with new buyers you can
share content you can attract the right
kind of leads repel the right wrong kind
of leads
you can also learn a lot i'm amazed that
how many people follow my content and
i'll say something or i'll write
something and they'll reach out to me
and say james i saw that video and you
said this and that prompted me
to reach out to you and here's why did
you know about this and they'll share
something and i'm immediately engaged
not only am i immediately engaged with
that person because they're
following my content and referencing it
in their message but i'm like what is
this
i said something what did i say
i'm going back i'm looking at the video
i'm looking at their message i'm going
to the link they sent me i'm reading it
i'm getting back to them i'm like this
is interesting do you want to talk about
it like that's a great discovery call
for that person we bought products
because of that
line of thought right
yeah that's good ad
like you said you can learn stuff just
from certainly from the linkedin feed
there's all kinds of advice depending on
who you're connected to yeah so you can
pick up and learn
not all of it not all of it great that's
for sure
out there
we'll get
whether it's useful or not is another
conversation
with that said
if someone's
tuning in they're thinking this sounds
quite good i want to put this into play
i want to start kick off my personal
brand and see if it can actually help me
leverage trust leverage revenue get some
new leads um and all this good stuff
what are some of the key considerations
or what are some of the key first steps
to actually making it happen
yeah so i'm gonna give you three steps
that i took early on that helped me
build say what sales uh the first one is
i came up with the hashtag so i grew up
in the 80s say what was like super
popular in the 80s
and when i was starting out creating
videos and writing content online one of
the most common questions i would get is
what do i say when what do i say when
someone says this what do i say when
someone responds that how do i respond
when they say this so what do i say say
what sales came very naturally plus the
alliteration made it sticky
so come up with your hashtag let me just
tell you the hashtag has to be specific
to you
it can't be something that somebody
googles and lots of other things come up
and they end up scrolling forever trying
to find you
right there's another james buckley out
there he's a british actor maybe you
know him you've seen the ember cleaners
right
actor james buckley my goal in life is
to become more popular than that james
buckley right let's get go so come up
with that hashtag
that's specific to you i can't be
hashtag james buckley because that's
that guy
right so say what sales is my hashtag
and then in my content so i used to work
with a guy his name was kenneth herring
and he is hashtag mr i hate mondays
and he started out as hashtag mr i have
fridays or i love fridays well that was
not as popular as i hate mondays
so at the end of all his videos and his
stuff he would say his thing and then he
would say hashtag mr i hate mondays and
then he would say his slogan and i heard
it so often
that i was like oh man you know what am
i gonna say to like wrap my stuff up
and i've always sold to salespeople
that's like who i sell best to i sell to
sellers
so at the time i was trying to attract
more people that sell so i came up with
if you're a salesperson
we're the same person
this way when people hear it they're
like we're the same person like i am a
salesperson me too man right and they
come towards me
because we're the same person now people
yell that [__] back out at me at events
hey we're the same person and while
you're like oh hey man what's happening
you know like that's that's ty high five
right uh or air high five now i guess uh
the uh
the other side the last thing is so come
up with your slogan come up with your
hashtag what are you gonna say that
belongs to you and then what hashtag are
you going to use to promote it with all
your [__]
and then the third step is open up a doc
on your phone on your laptop on a device
that you always have with you make a
list
and develop this mind frame of
that would make good content for my
audience well you know what that that
reminds me of a situation in sales that
i come across all the time make a note
and add it to the list every time you
have an idea and we all have it right
everybody has ideas all the time
throughout the day and we're like oh
that's a good idea i got to write that
down and then you never do and then you
never go back to that idea you never
revisit that idea
this happens to everybody it's a very
human thing if you take a moment even if
you have to pull off the side of the
road because you had this idea in the
car and you pull over onto the side of
the road and you open up that dock and
you jot that idea down really quick that
is a good move because every day
you're going to wake up and reference
that ongoing list of ideas and execute
on one of them just one
it doesn't have to be
700 tweets a day even though that's
wildly effective for some reason
right we're playing the algorithms there
but consistency once a day on all these
platforms linkedin twitter facebook
snapchat tick tock
all of them
consistency there will build a network
consistency over time equals audience
that's the equation
yeah just quick one on the hashtags
how much importance do you think there
is on that because personally
that's why i focus mainly on linkedin
because a lot of our buyers are b2b and
that's how we get a lot of inbound just
because i post
daily tips on websites and seo simple as
that now
i've always struggled with them because
i've never really seen if there's much
benefit if i add like i don't actually
have a custom one so maybe i should do
that i just add things like digital
marketing seo web design etc
and how much importance do you think
there is on having your own personal
unique hashtag that you shared with us
and your slogan just then so the
platform that you're putting this
content on matters if i'm putting
content on linkedin linkedin's kind of
stringent on hashtags they're not
it's not a very useful tool there for
seo sure it is if you are limited with
it so sometimes i'll put a written post
out or i'll put a video out and i'll use
two three hashtags my my x say what
sales all one word and then i'll go and
i'll do like hashtag negotiation or
hashtag prospecting and that's because
that's what the content is about but
those two hashtags are only hashtags
that i'll use sometimes it's three four
at the most you know really sparing
hashtags on linkedin now on instagram
hashtags have a different function they
function in the seo world
so the more hashtags you can use on
instagram the more exposure you're gonna
get
and you can actually go in and find the
best hashtags to use with hashtag expert
i use this all the time it's an app on
your phone
and you just type in your first hashtag
your main theme and you hit go and it
generates all these other hashtags that
are associated to that and you can pick
and choose the best ones here's another
quick tip instagram specifically you can
type in the search bar a hashtag and you
can see how many people have used that
hashtag
if it's a wildly popular hashtag i don't
know if you know this but when you use a
hashtag on instagram that hashtag starts
to show up in your feed
got it that's useful because i'm an
instagram noob
so yes instagram i can't tell you how
many people hit me on linkedin and say i
follow you on instagram i can't tell you
how many people on instagram hit me and
go i follow you on linkedin one network
feeds another one and that's why
omnipresence with your personal brand is
the best thing you can have tiktok is
like bananas right now morgan j ingram
is murdering it on tick tock
so
of your third of your three points james
the third point was to make a list of
good content for your audience so let's
dive a bit deeper on that
what defines good content and
who should you target as your audience
yeah so we always talk about icp for
those of you that don't know what that
is it's ideal customer profile and
normally this refers to a company
especially in the b2b space
but there's a persona within that
company and that ideal persona is the
thing you want to create content for
that person is the person that cares
about the stuff you want to talk about
so what dictates good content
content that generates connection that
leads to conversation
that's what that's in the sales world in
b2b that is what makes great content let
me i'll give you the whole funnel so you
can see it fully
content is the road to connection that
connection should lead to conversation
that conversation gives way to a
relationship some people call this trust
others credibility once i've established
that stage in the funnel i should have
no problem either uncovering or earning
an opportunity and the law of averages
says the more opportunities we have the
more sales we make
this is not rocket science
this is 2 000 plus years of human
instinct that we are born with to sit
around fires eat meat and derive value
from one another
it is very difficult
for people to not engage with you
after they've engaged with your content
because they feel connected to you
in terms of the content you tend to
share so in terms of kind of building a
list are there any
for people that perhaps struggle with
coming up with fresh ideas and they
struggle they think i'm not sure what my
ideal client wants to see today or this
week or i need to put together some
posts so i can do let's say one a day
like you recommended any tips for how
you can actually come up with some
decent ideas that are going to resonate
and start those in conversations i have
a couple tips my first one is go talk to
your customer success team
and talk to them about your top five
customers and why they love you
and then take that list of things that
they care about that they love you for
and go look for things that you can
relate
to those things and talk about those
things because the people that relate to
it are going to like comment share
engage leave a comment somewhere
you know maybe they reshare it to their
network maybe they tag a few friends
everybody's seen this happen
those friends are great prospects
and you know what i do i reach out right
away and i say hey
since people are tagging you in my
content i thought we should connect
no one has turned me down
[Laughter]
so here's another tip you're looking for
great ideas great content and then how
do i get to know them
know your icp know your personas within
read their linkedin profiles
if you have a list of people that you
want to potentially sell to in the near
future what are their job descriptions
what does their about page say can you
pick things out of those places on
linkedin and create content about them
because if you do and then you send that
piece of content to them after you post
it and say after reading your linkedin
profile i created this content based on
what i read about you
i promise high engagement i promise
because not only is that hyper
personalized but it's relevant to them
specifically and you've created content
about it
so you can do this sparingly throughout
the day take five minutes pick your best
prospect read their linkedin profile
create a piece of content that's
relevant to something that's on their
linkedin profile don't call them out by
name because not for them on the content
side it's for them when you email it to
them and you say based on what i learned
about you
i shared this piece of content today and
i'd love is magic i'd love your feedback
nice little open-ended cta at the end
there
well so notice that it's not a question
either
i'd love your feedback it's a statement
right no ask
we have to change our brains number one
thing that sales people do almost every
message can i have 30 minutes can i have
15 minutes one of that one of those is
in there
right when can we connect to that's too
much that's too easy for me to say we
can't
right and then sometimes the biggest
mistake i see is there's no call to
action at all
but i'd love your feedback is not only a
call to action it's not a question i'm
not asking you for [__]
and that is different it stands out in a
sea of the same
and you created content based on what
you learned about them so their ego is
going to kick in hard right there
yeah
no i like the tips about talking to your
customer service team that's probably
one of my top ways to create content on
linkedin i don't come up with many
original ideas most of the things i post
around questions that i get either from
prospective clients or existing
customers
all around how do i do this what's the
best way to do that how long is it going
to take to do that what did you find was
the easiest way to do this literally if
i get those questions i'll make a list
of it and maybe put it into a video
maybe put on a solo episode on the
podcast maybe then repurpose it into a
linkedin post a blog article just list
down these questions that you get
regularly because if people are
regularly asking you them you know that
more people are going to be asking you
them in the future and not only does it
give you decent content to share on
socials whether that's linkedin it means
you can even create videos about it
podcast about it and then when someone
asks you just say check out this link
that's going to give you all you need
and more
yeah you know questions are funny in the
sense that like some people will label a
dumb question or a smart question or a
good question or a bad question
um no matter what question you are
asking i promise there are at least 500
000 people
in your area in your space that have the
same question i promise
the dumbest questions are the ones that
you didn't ask even though it was on
your mind
yeah i think that's probably one thing
that repels some people from starting a
personal brand or starting content they
probably think they don't have anything
interesting to share but the thing is
you probably know your industry a
hundred times better than anyone that
doesn't so most things that you're gonna
that you're about to share
as long as they're in some aspect
educational helpful entertaining and
they're around your vertical your
industry what you sell
then they're probably new ideas to
people that don't know about it
well
so you said something interesting there
the phrase that you said that i caught
was i don't have anything interesting to
share which is a common thing that i
hear when i talk to people about
building their brand here's what i say
to them
it doesn't have to be your interesting
thought
you can share your learning experience
your journey and you can ask people what
they think
about a specific topic about something
guess what all those people probably are
for you
prospects
because if you are learning in a
specific space that you're selling into
and one of the things that's confusing
you is x
and you're saying to your network at the
end of your video or your post
hey
if you are one of these types of people
what do you think about this topic i'd
love your thoughts in the comments
people wanna innately they wanna share
their stories they wanna talk about what
they know they wanna highlight their
expertise
so you can quite literally
create content and ask those people to
chime in and then reach out and thank
them
hey thank you
your answer was really helpful i'd love
to connect sometime and talk more about
this about this
this thing that you responded to
hopefully you're smart enough to create
content that you can talk more about
that thing whatever that thing is and
it's something that you actually can
sell to
[Laughter]
yeah yeah
so slight side topic how much of the
content that you put out in your opinion
james
should be
related to what you actually sell
and how much should be personal yeah so
i think that's a comfort level question
um some people are able to share very
personal things about them and like me i
share everything like my whole life is
like a big open book
uh because i don't care about your
judgment right but some people do
actually care what other people think
and the kudos to them like no judgment
here for that
but you've got to decide what your
comfort level is great example one line
that i often don't cross is i don't like
pictures of my kids or my wife online
they don't like it they don't want to be
there so i don't post it there you know
occasionally i have an exception
where like they're part of like
something that we're doing together and
they want to be a part of the photo and
i'm like yeah i'm going to share this
and they're fine with it but on the
whole i don't share much about my my
kids and my wife i share about my family
i share about stuff that we're going
through i share about things that we're
experiencing but there's not a lot of
vote photos of them or video of them on
my pages right some people
they don't care they share their
pictures of their kids all the time go
ahead man like you can decide your
comfort level for me personally right
now i would say
about 60 40 60 percent to the
content side about what i do and how i
help people and problems that i'm seeing
and you know stuff that's related to my
industry and my space 40 percent hey i'm
at this hockey game and having a blast
check out the wiener dog race right like
it's a lot of fun
it's supposed to be fun don't forget
the thing that you do with a lot of your
professional time is supposed to be
enjoyed you're supposed to enjoy it it
should be fun and if it's not fun for
you and you're not having fun selling it
no one is having fun buying it from you
i promise
it's stressful and pressure filled and
probably not very successful for you
long term not sustainable fun exciting
easy going easy to buy from easy to sell
to
those those people are are matches made
in heaven and it's hard to say no to
them
yeah i suppose if you put personal if
you if you have a mix if you put some
personal posts out there well that is
pictures of what you're up to on the
weekend or what you enjoy doing outside
of work whatever that might be i suppose
it also gives people
a kind of insight into what it might be
like working with you as well because if
you're only ever playing kind of more
corporate stuff and they don't see what
you like outside of work it might give
you a bit of insight into the
personality yeah and might help people
take a shine to you those that might
might have been on the edge of deciding
whether to work you or not that could be
the difference between them dropping you
a message and saying hey been enjoying
your content let's discuss this project
or whatever well think about this when
you look at somebody's profile picture
what do you see do they look like this
that's just me
if they look angry and upset and
frustrated
tread lightly when you talk to this
person because their personality is
relatively rigid you're judging that on
looks
you know
or do they look like me with their
thumbs up and that big stupid smile
right like i'll [__] talk to anybody
i don't care you know like it's awesome
high five let's meet can we do stuff
together cool if not elbows man i'll
holler like reach out if i can help you
in any way like that's rob talk to
straight i've been saying this lately
and i think it makes a lot of sense like
we have to recognize what the purpose of
the brand is it's so that people stop
and talk to us so that people will
make that attempt to get us to have
conversation with them we're told our
entire lives
don't talk to strangers don't get in
their cars when we're kids this is a
huge focus for our parents
when you are an adult seller as a
profession
the job is not only to talk to strangers
but get in the van and have some candy
get in the van and play with the puppies
go with them wherever they're going
[Laughter]
i'm not sure how to take that but i've
enjoyed it i'm saying like dude like
when you think it's [__] up when you
think about it
it's really real like that's the job
when you're in sales and when you're
building a brand like you know
how do i get this person to stop in
their windowless black van and be like
hey
hop in we got the puppies
[Laughter]
that was a good analogy so it's worth
adding at this point that james actually
had a flood over the last day and he
still agreed to do this podcast with us
so it shows that he's he's all about
kind of helping you out with your
personal brand and normally he's got an
awesome studio with his whiskey seller
and his wine vaults and his beer vaults
behind him so yeah appreciate that dude
thanks for watching still coming along
now yeah i i
like the if you knew what happened to me
over the last 24 hours you have no idea
i'm like so beside myself i don't even
have the words for how much water was in
my house so man well hopefully you can
get it get it fixed sharpish and so
wrapping this up in terms of channels so
you mentioned james did you say you're
doing kind of one post across social
channels each
day is that right
that's right sometimes more than one i
i'll be honest with you a lot of people
struggle because they're afraid that
they're gonna like get weeded out by
this algorithm that's mysterious that
they don't understand we have to let go
of this thought don't worry about that
[__] man you're never gonna figure that
algorithm out and the moment you do it's
gonna change so
don't stress over it instead just
think about a content strategy overall
that makes sense for you to be
consistent and then allow the content to
do its job and go where it needs to go
and affect the people that it needs to
affect but don't give up on it if you
give up on it and you step away from it
your engagement will go down and you'll
have less new conversations and new
conversations get in the van
that's the job you need that right
that's the whole purpose of being out
there and putting yourself out there
people use the internet in lots of
different ways we can go into that on
another show
but for the purpose of b2b sales
building your brand and being consistent
posting content out there is what gives
you that living breathing thing that
everyone wants to be a part of and
everything starts with how do i get this
person to want to talk to me
personal branding revenue generation
getting cash in the bank a lot of people
tuning in are probably going to want to
know how can i result how can i actually
turn this into revenue for even my
company to hit my sales target and get
my commission or how can i use this to
grow my own business
now you've mentioned quite a bit about
starting conversations should we be
looking at this from more of an outbound
strategy in terms of messaging people
that fit our ideal client persona or
should we be hoping that our content
that we put out consistently is going to
attract the right people and they'll
direct message or call us yeah it's both
it's both and it always will be what we
should be doing is creating consistent
content that is either personal or
professional and then mining that
content literally going in and saying
hey i have five comments on this post
who are these people do they work at
companies that are my icp are they my
persona that i could sell to and if you
ask yourself those questions with each
piece of content that you put out and
then build your network based on that
you will have a network full of people
that can buy from you
and isn't that the best kind of network
absolutely
right from a
where do i put what perspective
know that the style of content that you
put on one platform can't be exactly the
same on on another platform every single
time
sometimes i have to create two videos
sometimes i can use the same video on
every platform it doesn't always
it's not always cookie cutter
but
every time somebody engages likes
comments shares i go and i find that
person and if they're my ideal client
client and my ideal persona i'm
immediately reaching out and my
connection request says hey thanks for
being a great stay with sales follower
we've never had a conversation and i'd
like to remedy that
so when you talk about joining like like
taking your content and creating revenue
out of it for your company that's the
way because that new conversation is the
path to the revenue
and there's this messed up like
leadership thing like oh
you're talking to people that are
engaging with your content you should be
talking to prospects my immediate
response is how do you know the people
that i'm not talking to are prospects if
i don't talk to them
yeah it's like chicken and egg
you can't
find out if someone is a prospect before
you talk to them
and if you talk to them and then find
out they're not a prospect that's not
time wasted either but leadership has
this mentality of like i only want you
to talk to people that are buying from
you [__] man i'm sorry life just doesn't
work that way
well it's almost like a quicker win if
you put out a post and you see that
someone that let's say for example you
target marketing directors of certain
companies and if someone that fits that
person has commented on your post or
liked it
it's a quick win right it means you
don't have to go in cold you can drop
the message and strike up a conversation
about what resonated with them about
your piece of content there it is yep
what's the number one thing that sales
people struggle to have when they're
reaching out cold it's context every
time it's context it's really it's
relative context it's relevance
right
if somebody engages with a piece of your
content and you're reaching out saying
thank you first of all right and you're
also saying what was it that you liked
about that piece of content i'd love to
chat about it sometime it's been on my
mind for a while and because you're in
that business i feel like i could pick
your brain and learn a few things
how hard is it for that person not to be
like oh my gosh i really like that
comment and the reason i liked it is
because you said this i deal with that
every single day if that one thing that
they say right there is the the value
that you're selling you just hit a gold
mine oh i deal with that problem every
single day hey funny enough you know
what i do
i fix that problem
[Laughter]
yeah exactly it's um it's like i think
there's a guy called benjamin dennehy
that came out the same but i could be
completely wrong it's some will someone
so what move on so some will some won't
so what move on and ultimately some
people might tell you to piss off but
who cares most people are gonna be quite
receptive to this probably 90 odd
percent
um some might not reply many will say
yeah i actually enjoyed what you said
about this in fact this is going on our
organization or they might give you a
referral but the thing is you won't know
unless you actually strike on the
opportunity and
drop them a message and start the
conversation like you said
i created a content a piece about having
duplicate records in salesforce huge
problem for a lot of companies that
leverage any crm duplicate records when
i created that content my one of my
people the people that i'm connected
with justice sicakani is his name
a legend in the salesforce space reached
out to me in a dm and said james i just
had a meeting about this problem call me
today
i called him we set up a meeting get
just follow this line we set up a
meeting he ended up buying the solution
to remove the duplicates we then created
a piece of content together about
duplicate records we posted it one of
his connections saw it reached out to me
to learn more about it and we closed
that deal
i don't want to tell you the amounts
there
but
they were big deals
that company was an enterprise company
yeah sure
the first deal that i had wasn't the
biggest deal but it was my window into
the content that earned me the bigger
deal
that line of thought that's great
branding right there that is great
content strategy
all that happened on twitter by the way
nice interesting that's that's another
channel i don't use i spend most of my
time
content-wise on linkedin or youtube but
i feel i should diversify it's just the
time really for me
between running a business putting out
content and
channels so yeah if you've got any tips
on how to um timeline manage ads
management are your best friends so we
use asana for task management shout out
asana we love you uh you make my life
tick
but then we i use salesforce tasks for
my sales pipeline follow-ups and stuff
so what i'll do is i will quite
literally go into asana and i'll look at
my tasks and then i'll look at my
calendar and i'll block off the time
frames to be able to knock those tasks
out and then i'll look in my sales force
and i'll see how many open tasks i have
to complete and i'll block off a window
of time and nothing else can touch that
window of time because it's allocated
for this thing i'm telling you content
creation is no different sometimes i'll
set a reminder and i'll say
and i'll say hey siri
do me a favor and remind me tomorrow at
8am to post about x y and z and then at
8 am i get that and i go oh [__] and i
light up my phone and i do the quick
thought that i had and then i go back to
my desk and i get back to work it does
not take a long period of time to create
consistent content it takes consistency
and an understanding of what your
audience cares about and try not to be
too repetitive that's it if you can
manage that it doesn't take a huge
amount of time
twitter doesn't even allow you to post
huge long posts it's only a couple
characters
i was going to ask actually timeline
wise
what do you recommend or what have you
seen from perhaps either your own
social personal branding work james or
any of the clients or teams that you've
trained up
what kind of timeline could people
expect to see results
and by results i mean
i guess starting conversations or people
starting to reach out to you in a bit of
both
i i would expect to see a good array uh
depending on your audience in your
audience size i sell to sales people
that is a very broad audience some
people too
it managers right a little smaller some
people sell to cso right even smaller
you know uh so it depends on your
audience on how soon you're gonna see
results because if you're creating
content for a specific niche audience it
might take a little longer to grow your
network
but if you're creating content about a
specific problem that is a macro problem
big problem that a lot of people have i
would expect new conversation right away
i i've put videos out and had 35
conversations in a day from one piece of
content in the past
you can do it it's a matter of whether
or not you're willing to go through and
look at those individuals and decide
whether or not they're worth your time
don't do what i did i had to learn the
hard way everybody's not worth that time
look at them can you sell to them is it
worth that cold call go for it don't
just go through the list and waste time
calling people that you probably can't
sell to
james have you ever seen anyone or heard
of anyone or know anyone
that gets 100 of their pipeline
and hits or exceeds their sales targets
from purely their personal brand and
what we've discussed today
i don't know that it'll ever be purely
done this way uh you know what i'll take
that back
uh i would say that gary vaynerchuk
could probably attribute an enormous
amount of his success to branding
probably not 100 but an enormous amount
of his success came from his ability to
constantly be creating content
sharing his thoughts and not giving a
rat's ass what anybody thinks about it
yeah yeah he's he's got to be up there
hasn't he
well think about it you can go on any
platform and you can look at his daily
posts and i just about guarantee that
you're gonna see five six posts a day
and he's
probably one of the more successful
personal brands out there right now in
my opinion we could name a few names but
that one is the one that i think most
people will resonate with the most
yeah and i can share as well from my
side which i've shared on older episodes
but right now so our primary social
platform is linkedin and that's just me
sharing organic posts usually once maybe
twice a day specifically not around
general stuff every now and then i'll
share a personal post but most of it is
geared quite selfishly towards people i
want to sell to so that's usually a tip
a question or a helpful bit of video
photo or text-based content just around
what we sell so websites and seo and
that actually is the third best
performing channel for our sales
pipeline so each year we do well over
six figures just from that content that
i put out so if you're sitting on the
fence and wondering if it works
under seo and underpaid ads linkedin
organic is our third best channel for
revenue so if i can do it just by
messing around on linkedin then pretty
much anyone else that's tuning in that
should be your your green flag to get
off your ass and start
get on get off your sass
get off your sasha seo paid ads personal
brand those are your top three i think
that's amazing um
a fourth one that i will add that's
coming back is events
events are coming back
in a bit
yeah uh networking events are coming
back conferences are coming back um
and i think what's
changing is the way that we're
interacting with each other right it's a
little more cautious
i think we're also a little more in tune
to like what we want to accomplish at an
event
uh elbows have become
common right everybody's everybody's
keeping their distance it's a little
more guarded um but
a big smile and a fun attitude and a
light-hearted conversation go a long way
at an event
just because you are there representing
a company and you have a goal doesn't
mean that that goal should overpower
your connection with others
and you don't need physical connection
to be able to be connected to somebody
make somebody laugh today you know like
if you do that their guard is down
number one number two it makes you feel
good to make somebody laugh that's a
positive experience for both parties go
for positive and let the rest take care
of itself
awesome man nice way to wrap it up james
always a pleasure to have you on mate
always enjoy our chat i appreciate you
no worries thanks very much so with that
said please do tell us more about how
everyone can connect with you learn more
about what you're up to at jbc anything
else you'd like to promote to us yes so
you can get access to all our training
courses tips techniques tactics
takeaways at join
jbsales.com uh we are excited to host
bi-weekly ask me anything sessions with
the team there as well as offer a slack
channel so you can reach out to us and
get our advice anytime you want to
that's all part of the membership it's
365 dollars for the year a dollar a day
you can reach out to me direct james
jbarrows.com
you can also cold call me i'd love a
good phone call 305-632-6005
and you can follow me on instagram
twitter
linkedin at say what sales all one word
i'm pretty hard to miss
so man thank you once again sir i
appreciate it my pleasure my friend
thanks again for having me out no
worries we'll put all of those links
over on the show notes over at
businessgrowth.marketing
and with that if you enjoyed today's
episode be sure to give us a quick
rating or hit that subscribe button
wherever you're tuning in we share
actual marketing tips to grow your
revenue each and every week with that we
should catch you on the next one cheers